#Philosophy of Mind

<p>This project tacitly assumes <b>functionalism</b>, the philosophical
(<i>i.e.</i> untestable by any presently known means) claim that if one has
reproduced with a sufficient level of accuracy the computational function of a
mind, then one has, in fact, reproduced that mind.<footnote>*<span>Note that
this is not a claim about the <i>possibility</i> of reproducing a mind's
computational function to a given level of accuracy; that claim is testable,
and, indeed, <span class="nemaload">NEMALOAD</span> aims to test exactly such a
claim for a limited class of minds.</span></footnote> Alternative philosophical
positions include (but are not limited to): <ul>

<li><b>Cartesian dualism</b>, which identifies the mind with a
supernatural<footnote>*<span>meaning <b>not subject to natural law</b>.
Functionalism is often criticised as dualist for its invocation of abstract
computational space, but the use of advanced mathematics to reason about
natural law has strong scientific precedent, and should not be construed as
mysticism.</footnote> entity</li>

<li><b>property dualism</b>, which holds that the mind can be identified with a
natural process, but that this process depends upon one or more currently
unknown natural laws</li>

<li><b>mind-brain identity theory</b>, which identifies the mind with (some level of
continuity of) the physical substance that embodies it</li>

<li><b>behaviorism</b>, which identifies the mind with its pattern of
interactions with the environment<footnote>*<span>The difference between
behaviorism and functionalism is very subtle.  A theoretical &ldquo;perfect
copy&rdquo; of a mind's pattern of interactions with its environment is
identical to a &ldquo;perfect copy&rdquo; of that mind's computational
function. However, these approaches differ in their treatment of inaccuracies,
which are an important fact about reality.  Functionalism suggests that there
are important &ldquo;hidden variables&rdquo; (that is, internal states) and
that a simulation has started to diverge from an original mind when these
hidden variables go significantly wrong (even if simulated behavior remains
indistinguishable from original behavior under the testing conditions). In this
sense, functionalism imposes stronger conditions on uploading, not only because
it demands knowledge of hidden variables, but because it demands knowledge of
<i>which</i> hidden variables are &ldquo;important&rdquo;. Functionalist dogma
has little to say about the definition of importance in this context; one hopes
that experiment can shed some light.</span></footnote></li>

</ul>
</p>

